>> Mike North: If you checked out
the project, which is bitly/fem-ts,
for TypeScript,
we can open up the examples folder and
go to a little sub-project
in there called hello-ts.
And we're going to learn about how to
use the TypeScript compiler to turn
TypeScript into JavaScript.
>> Mike North: So
I'm just gonna open up, in hello-ts,
we've got a source folder and
then Index-ts within that folder.
There's just only one file in that folder.
What we've got here is some TypeScript
code, and it's just two functions,
and then a tiny little program that runs,
that uses the above functions.
First, we have a function that
returns a promise that resolves
after a set period of time.
So you can think of this almost,
it's the responsible equivalent
of a sleep or await, right?
When we pause execution and JavaScript
is free to go and do other things
while we're waiting and then it'll resume
after a specified number of milliseconds.
It's just wrapping set time out and
then resolving the promise.
The second function,
it adds two numbers together, and
we begin by waiting half a second
before we return the result.
So it's a really slow calculator basically
that can only do addition of two numbers,
not incredibly useful.
I've chosen this because it includes some
modern syntax that some browsers and
JavaScript environments we may care about,
they can't understand natively.
So we're gonna look at different
ways of compiling this so
that we can get an output that
will run where we need it to work.
All right,
I'm gonna open up my terminal here.
So, and just to be clear,
it's important you use
Visual Studio Code for this workshop.
>> Mike North: It is the editor that is
built kinda hand-in-hand with TypeScript,
right next to the team that
built TypeScript itself.
So it's possible to set up other
environments such that you get the kind of
experience we're about to see.
But it requires much more effort
than what you'll see right here.
>> Mike North: All right, so
the first thing I'm gonna do,
>> Mike North: I'm
gonna go into examples/hello-ts,
so I'm sort of working in
the hello-ts folder,
>> Mike North: And
I'm gonna see what's in the source
folder only this one file.
So I wanna use this command tsc,
which is TypeScript compiler,
src/index.ts.
>> Mike North: And what we have here is
another file that's popped up, index.js.
>> Mike North: And if we look at these
side-by-side, it's a lot of extra code.
I mean,
if we try to find our original code,
it looks like it starts down here,
>> Mike North: And
then more kind of explosion of complexity.
What we're seeing here is ES3 JavaScript,
the kind of JavaScript you would
run in Internet Explorer 6.
So we probably don't care about Internet
Explorer 6, but this is the default.
By default, you build JavaScript
that can run basically anywhere.
We can compile it again
with a flag that will
indicate that things
don't need to be dumped
down quite so much, target ES2015.
>> Mike North: Okay, well, I can see
right away a lot of the code went away.
Line 31 is where we end.
And we still have a little
overhead here like some help or
code that's necessary for
compatibility reasons.
But now I'm seeing promise pop up.
Promise is a part of ES6 or ES2015.
I don't see that we have await.
So it seems that async and
await are not something that is available
with this version of JavaScript.
So we can go up to ES2017 and we should
see await comeback, and in fact, it does.
There is our async and our await.
All that's really change
if we look at add numbers,
is this little extra bits of information
which I'm sure you can assume
that that means like a should be
a number and b should be a number.
That has disappeared because
that's not part of JavaScript.
But other than that, I mean we have
closest makes no difference the same
number of lines of code, right?
Now, if we tried to run this,
let's let's try to run this in Node,
cuz there's nothing here that's
necessarily browser specific in terms of
like functions we're calling.
So we could just run node src/index.js,
and we'll get an error, and
that error says unexpected token export.
Has anyone here worked with Node before?
What am I running into here?
>> Mike North: Can you spot a problem
that would make Node potentially unhappy?
>> Mike North: Export, can we maybe look,
how does Node.js export things?
>> Speaker 2: Module.exports.
>> Mike North: Module.exports, right, and
this is because commonjs
modules are used for Node.
We import things with require,
we export things with module that exports.
So we can add another compiler flag here.
>> Mike North: Modules or module commonjs,
and we should see this change,
and in fact it does, exports.addnumbers.
And now if we will try to run it,
everything works, right?
We wait for brief period of time and
then we log out the result of
the adding three and four together.
So there a lot different
flags you can use here.
Here's another one of my favorites,
--watch.
And that will leave the TypeScript
compiler watching the source files, so
that if I were to change something,
like let's say I add a string here,
result is,
>> Mike North: And comma, and I'm gonna
hit Save and you can see the file on
the right kinda updated automatically.
So it watches your source files and will
incrementally update only what's changed.
It's a nice, fast,
incremental compilation.
It doesn't do your whole app,
just what's changed.